Yes — exactly that instinct. 🙌 And it's worth nailing down, because this search-and-adapt skill matters more than memorizing any code. Let me give you the real version of the process:

How you'd actually do it solo

1. Search — but aim for the official docs.

You'd Google something like:
django signals post_save example
But the key move: click the result from docs.djangoproject.com, not a random blog. The official docs (and Django's own tutorial) are the source of truth. For us that's:
- https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/topics/signals/

Blogs are fine for a quick "oh that's the shape," but verify against the docs — blogs go stale, the docs match your Django version.

2. You wouldn't find a copy-paste "template." Here's the honest part 👇

Signals don't have one neat template. What you'd actually do is assemble 3 facts from the docs:

a) HOW to subscribe        →  @receiver(post_save, sender=...)   (signals docs)
b) WHEN it fires + args    →  post_save gives you `instance`, `created`  (signals reference page)
c) WHERE to switch it on   →  import signals in apps.py ready()   (the "where should this code live" note)

That third one (apps.py ready()) is the piece blogs always forget and beginners always miss. The docs have a specific section literally called "Where should this code live?" — that's the bit that saves you the hour of confusion.

3. Adapt, don't copy. The docs show a generic example. You'd swap their names for yours:
their example          →   your version
sender=MyModel         →   sender=User
do_something()         →   OTPCode.objects.create(...)

4. Test small. Exactly what we're about to do — create one user, check one table. Confirm it fired before building more on top.

---
So your mental loop for any new Django feature, forever:

search official docs  →  understand the 3 pieces (how/when/where)  →  adapt names  →  test small

🧠 The mindset shift: you're not memorizing signal syntax. You're learning "signals exist, and they live in the docs under this name." When you need them in 6 months, you won't recall the code — you'll recall "oh, this is a signals job" and go fetch the shape. Knowing what to search for is the actual skill. That's how senior devs work — nobody has it all memorized.

Now — did that OTPCode row appear in the admin when you added a user? 👀
