No need to apologise. Let me say it plainly.

What I meant: Docker Desktop's green light only means "the program started." It doesn't mean "the website works." A program can start up fine and still be broken inside.

So the green light wasn't proof. Opening the page was.

You opened it. It loads. Now it's proven. That's all I was saying.

---
And look at what just happened.

That page you're looking at — your dashboard, your London data, your chart — loaded with:

- ❌ no runserver
- ❌ no .venv on your laptop
- ❌ no Python on your laptop being used at all

All of it came from inside the box. Your laptop's Python isn't even involved anymore. If you uninstalled Python right now, that page would keep working.

That's what "in a box" means. And that's you out of the student phase — the thing you said you wanted back in June.

Let me record it.

  Wrote 1 memory

Today, in one list:

- ✅ Found a 17-day-red CI and made it green
- ✅ Killed the stale requirements.txt — one source of truth now
- ✅ Built your first Docker image
- ✅ Retired runserver for gunicorn
- ✅ Your app running as a third sibling container

That's a genuinely big day.

Commit it — none of the Docker work is saved yet:

git add -A
git commit -m "Dockerize Django app, add web service to compose"
git push

CI should stay green — none of this touches manage.py check. But check the Actions tab anyway. That's the habit: red means stop.

---
What's left — two chunks:

1. Tests — weather/tests.py is still empty. Your CI proves "Django

2. Push the image to ghcr.io — CI builds your box and puts it on th/akash-dutta07/dashboard:latest becomes a real thing anyone canpull. That's the Phase 4 finish line.

Honestly? You could do #2 next session and be done in 30 minutes.

Park it here, or keep going?





Yes. That's the click. Let me show you exactly why.

Remember the last line of your Dockerfile?

CMD ["gunicorn", "dashboard.wsgi:application", "--bind", "0.0.0.0:8000"]

That line is your runserver command. You didn't stop typing it — yox. Now the box types it for itself, every time it starts.

That's what a Dockerfile really is: every command you used to type

---
One precise correction, because it matters:

It is running on your laptop. Physically — your CPU, your RAM, your electricity. Docker Desktop runs a small Linux inside Windows, and your box runs in there.

What's not involved is your Windows setup. Your Python. Your .venv. Your terminal. None of it is touched.

▎ The laptop is just borrowed hardware now. The app brought its own everything.

That's why it'd run identically on a server — the server is also just borrowed hardware.

---
And count the terminals.

Before: three. One for runserver. One for celery worker --pool=solo

Now: zero. That -d in docker compose up -d means detached — it runsyour terminal straight back.

Your VS Code terminal is free. The app doesn't need you sitting the

(Fair warning — worker and beat aren't in compose yet, only web. Soght now. We'll add them.)

---
That feeling — "wait, I didn't have to do the thing" — is the whole point of the last two months. You just stopped being the runtime.
