Everything in the Phase 4 curriculum is done and committed — Redis cache, models, signals, OTP, Celery, Beat, Debug Toolbar, rate limiting, the chart, admin. Working tree is clean, last commit was rate limiting.

One thing left to reach the finish line: the CI/CD piece (Slice B) — ending at pushing your Docker image to ghcr.io.

You already have a tiny CI skeleton at .github/workflows/ci.yml. It does one thing: installs deps and runs python manage.py check.

I spotted something in it worth looking at first, and it's a genuinely good lesson.

Your settings.py reads the database name like this:

NAME = config("POSTGRES_DB")

That value lives in your .env. And your .env is git-ignored — it never leaves your laptop.

So when GitHub runs your CI, there is no .env file there.

Question for you before I say anything more: what do you think happens when manage.py check runs on GitHub?

✻ Cooked for 1m 53s

※ recap: Phase 4's Django curriculum is fully done and committed; the last piece is CI/CD, ending at pushing your Docker image to ghcr.io. Right now we're looking at your CI workflow, which reads database settings from a .env file that GitHub doesn't have. Your call on what happens next. (disable recaps in /config)

❯ i dont know plz say i will learn as u teach me

No problem. Let me tell you what happens.

Picture the CI machine.

Every time you push code, GitHub gives you a brand-new, factory-fresh computer. Empty. Nothing on it.

It downloads your code from GitHub onto that fresh machine, runs your commands, then throws the whole machine away.

That's it. That's all CI is.

Now the important part:

It downloads your code from GitHub. Only what's on GitHub.

Your .env is git-ignored. It has never been pushed. It is sitting on your laptop and nowhere else.

So that fresh machine gets settings.py, which says:

NAME = config("POSTGRES_DB")

And it goes looking for POSTGRES_DB... and finds nothing. No .env. No value. Nothing.

So manage.py check crashes. Your CI is red. It has probably been red every push.

And here's the thing I want you to sit with: that's not a bug you introduced. That's the system working correctly. You git-ignored .env on purpose, because it holds your database password. You never want that on GitHub.

So this is the real question every team hits:

▎ The CI machine needs config to run. But the config file is secret and can't be pushed. So how does the CI machine get its config?

That's the whole lesson. Let's confirm it's actually happening before I show you the answer — run this and paste me what you see:

gh run list --limit 5

That's fine — gh is GitHub's command-line tool and you just don't have it installed. Not needed. We'll look in the browser instead.

Let me get your repo address.

  Ran 1 shell command

Open this in your browser:

https://github.com/Akash-Dutta07/dashboard/actions

That's the Actions tab of your repo. It's the log of every CI run.

You're looking for one thing: a red ❌ next to your recent pushes.

Tell me what you see — red, green, or nothing at all.

✻ Crunched for 14s

❯ [Image #2] [Image #3]
[Image #2]
[Image #3]

Look at what you just found. This is perfect.

Read your list bottom to top — that's oldest to newest.

- CI #1 (Jun 10) — ✅ green
- CI #2 through CI #9 — ❌ red, every single one

So it worked once, then broke and never recovered. Let me prove why.
