Done. Here's what changed, in plain terms.

Before:
- uses: actions/setup-python@v5      # install Python
- run: pip install -r requirements.txt   # read the stale list

After:
- uses: astral-sh/setup-uv@v5   # install uv, the tool you actually use
- run: uv sync --locked          # read pyproject.toml + uv.lock
- run: uv run python manage.py check

Three things worth understanding:

1. requirements.txt is gone. Deleted. There is now exactly one list of your dependencies — pyproject.toml. Nothing left to rot.

2. --locked is the important word. It doesn't just install from uv.lock — it checks that uv.lock still agrees with pyproject.toml, and fails loudly if they've drifted apart.

Read that again, because it's the whole point of today. You just lost 17 days to two files silently disagreeing. --locked makes that exact class of mistake impossible to ignore — it turns a silent lie into a loud failure.

That's the real skill: don't just fix the bug, remove the possibility of the bug.

3. No setup-python step. uv reads your .python-version file and installs 3.12 itself. Fewer moving parts.

Now — let's not push a guess. Check it works on your machine first, where you can see it instantly:

uv sync --locked

That's the exact command CI will run. If your lockfile is healthy it'll say something like Resolved 11 packages / Audited and finish quietly.

Paste me what it says.

✻ Cogitated for 58s

❯ like what i need to do now

Just one thing. Run this one command:

uv sync --locked

Open a terminal in your project folder, paste that, hit enter.

Then copy whatever it prints and paste it back to me.

That's it. Nothing else.

Why this command: it's the exact same line I put in the CI file. We're running it on your laptop first so you find out in 2 seconds instead of pushing and waiting.

✻ Sautéed for 6s

❯ Resolved 37 packages in 5ms
  Audited 36 packages in 0.22ms

Green. That's your lockfile confirming it's healthy.

Notice the number: 37 packages.

Your pyproject.toml lists 11. But those 11 have their own dependencies, and those have dependencies. The real total is 37.

Your old requirements.txt said 2.

That gap — 2 versus 37 — is what CI was choking on.

Now push it and watch.

git add -A
git commit -m "CI: use uv instead of stale requirements.txt"
git push

Then go back to your Actions tab: https://github.com/Akash-Dutta07/dashboard/actions

Now — my prediction, on the record before you run it.

It will still go red ❌. But the error will change. Celery will install fine. Django will start loading settings, hit config("POSTGRES_DB"), find no .env, and die there.

A different error is a win. It means the first bug is genuinely dead and we've reached the second one.

Go push. Paste me the new last line.
