 from .tasks import fetch_weather — the . part

This is just an import, like you've done since Phase 1. The . means "from right here, this same app folder."

from .tasks import fetch_weather
     │     │
     │     └── the file  weather/tasks.py
     └── "." = the current folder (the weather app)

So it reads: "from the tasks.py file next to me, grab the fetch_weather function."

You've written fetch_weather already — it lives in weather/tasks.py (the function that calls the weather API and saves readings). The view needs to reference it, so it imports it. Nothing new here except the shorthand . for "same folder."



The busy restaurant

Imagine a small restaurant.

At the front is Maya, the waitress. Her only job is to greet customers and take their order. She's fast and friendly, and there's a long line of hungry people at the door.

In the back is Tom, the cook. Cooking a meal takes him about 10 minutes.

Now — here's the important part. Between Maya and Tom, on the kitchen wall, there's a little spinning ticket wheel (those metal wheels you see in diners where order slips get clipped on).

A customer walks up to Maya.

▎ "One London burger, please."

Maya doesn't run to the back and cook it herself. If she did, the whole line at the door would be stuck waiting for her — nobody else could order. That would be a disaster.

Instead, Maya scribbles the order on a slip, clips it onto the spinning wheel, and instantly turns to the next customer: "Hi! What can I get you?" She's free again in two seconds.

Meanwhile, Tom in the back is watching that wheel. A new slip appears — "London burger" — so he grabs it and starts cooking. He takes his 10 minutes, no rush, without holding up the line at all.

The customer got a fast "coming right up!" from Maya, and the food gets made in the back. Nobody waited on anybody.

---
That's your whole project. Same three characters:

- Maya, the waitress = your webpage. Takes the request, responds instantly, never does slow work herself.
- The spinning ticket wheel = Redis. Just holds the order slips.
- Tom, the cook = the worker. Watches the wheel, grabs slips, does the slow cooking (fetching weather).

And "Celery"? That's just the name of the whole restaurant system — Maya, the wheel, and Tom working together this way. That's it.

---
So when your webpage runs fetch_weather.delay('London', 51.5, -0.1) —
that's just Maya clipping a "London" slip onto the wheel and moving on. Tom will grab it and cook.
