weather/views.py — added the dashboard function (your two ORM lines in the 1-2-3 shape), kept trigger_fetch untouched.

weather/urls.py — added path('', views.dashboard, name='dashboard') so the homepage / now points to it.

(Ignore the yellow squiggle on request in your editor — Django requires every view to take request as its first argument, even when the function doesn't use it by name. It's not a bug.)

---
Now — a moment of honesty about what you'll see. Load this in your browser:

http://127.0.0.1:8000/

You'll get the page... but it'll still show fake data — "London, 14°C" and those made-up table rows. That's expected and correct. The template is still the raw Stitch design; we haven't told it to use your latest and readings bag yet.

Why load it anyway? To prove the plumbing works before we touch the template:
- Page appears = URL → view → template chain is connected ✅
- Page errors = something's wrong, and we fix that before adding more.

This is the same "test the layer before building on it" habit from before.

Go load / and tell me: does the Stitch dashboard appear (even with fake numbers), or do you get an error? Based on what you see, we take the next step — wiring the real data in.



Good — this is a great teaching moment, and it's an easy fix. Let me read it the way you should read any error: from the clues Django hands you.

Look at the middle of that page. Django is being super helpful — it literally lists what it tried:

1. admin/
2. fetch/ [name='trigger_fetch']
The empty path didn't match any of these.

See what's missing? Our new dashboard route for the empty path '' isn't in the list. fetch/ is there, but '' is not. So Django genuinely doesn't know about our new line yet.

That tells us: the code is right, but Django is running an old copy of urls.py. The dev server didn't pick up our edit.

Let me confirm the wiring is actually correct before we blame the reload:

  Read 1 file

The wiring is 100% correct. dashboard/urls.py includes weather.urls at '', and your weather/urls.py now has both the dashboard and fetch routes. Nothing to fix in the code.

So this confirms our diagnosis: the running server is holding an old copy of weather/urls.py — the one from before my edit, which only had fetch/. That's exactly why fetch/ shows in the list but '' doesn't.

Normally runserver auto-reloads when a file changes, but on Windows it sometimes misses an edit. The fix is simple — restart the server manually:

1. Go to the terminal running runserver.
2. Press Ctrl+C to stop it.
3. Run it again:
python manage.py runserver

Watch the startup lines — it should print something like "Watching for file changes with StatReloader" and no errors.

Then reload http://127.0.0.1:8000/ in the browser.

---
The insight to steal here 🧠:

▎ When you change urls.py or settings.py and the change doesn't seem to take effect — suspect the reloader first. And when you hit a 404, read Django's list of what it tried. It tells you exactly which routes are live. A route missing from that list = the server doesn't know about it yet.

Restart and reload — you should now get the Stitch page (still with fake data). Tell me what you see.
