The two ways Django can answer

Right now, every time the browser asks Django something, Django sends back a finished HTML page — words, layout, colours, all baked together. Made for human eyes.

Think of it like a printed newspaper: the story is already laid out in columns with headlines. You read it as-is. You can't easily rip the numbers out and do something else with them.

The problem a chart creates

A chart doesn't want a newspaper. Chart.js can't read your pretty HTML page.

A chart wants raw numbers — just this:

"3pm → 24°",  "4pm → 23°",  "5pm → 22°" ...

No layout. No colours. No headline. Just the facts.

So we add a second kind of URL

Alongside your normal page, we build a second URL whose whole job is to hand back raw numbers — nothing else. Not a page. Just data.

Like a little window that dispenses index cards of pure facts, instead of a printed newspaper.

Design A (what you have today):
   Browser ──► Django ──► finished HTML page ──► human eyes

The doorway (what we add now):
   Browser ──► Django ──► raw numbers only ──► Chart.js draws the chart
                              │
                              └── those SAME numbers could feed
                                  a React app, a phone app, anything

Look, Akash — THIS is the doorway to Design B I told you about.

Once a URL hands out pure data instead of a page, you're no longer locked to one front-end.

- Today: Chart.js drinks from it → draws a line.
- Tomorrow (Design B): a whole React / Stitch app could drink from the exact same URL.

Design A serves pages. Design B serves data and lets someone else build the pages. The instant you build this one data-URL, you've built the bridge between them. You don't have to cross it — but now it exists.

---
That's the why. Does that picture land? If yes, next I'll show you the one small decision that makes this real: why we don't just return the numbers ourselves — we let a tool called a "serializer" package them. (That's the only new word today.)

✻ Worked for 1m 41s

❯ sorry i didnt get a single thing

No worries at all — that was too much at once. My fault. Let me throw all that away and go one tiny step at a time.

Forget "Design B," forget doorways. Just this:

Your dashboard page already shows weather as a table of numbers, right? Rows like 3pm → 24°, 4pm → 23°.

A chart is nothing more than those same numbers drawn as a line instead of a table.

That's the whole goal today: take the numbers you already have, and draw them as a line.

That's it. Does that one sentence make sense so far?

✻ Cogitated for 9s

❯ line?

Yeah — "line" as in the wavy line that goes up and down.

You've seen it on a weather app: the temperature line that rises during the day and drops at night. Or a heartbeat line on a monitor. Or the squiggly line showing a stock price.

It's just dots connected together:

- 3pm was 24° → dot up high
- 6pm was 20° → dot a bit lower
- 9pm was 16° → dot lower still
- connect the dots → a line that slopes down as evening comes

Same numbers as your table. Just drawn instead of listed.

That picture — a line made of temperature dots — does that feel clear?

✻ Cogitated for 8s

❯ yeah that's clear, keep going

Nice. Next tiny piece.

Who actually draws the line?

A little drawing tool called Chart.js. It runs inside the browser (the web page itself), and it's really good at one thing: you give it a list of numbers, it draws the wavy line.

But here's the catch — Chart.js is only a drawer. It has no numbers of its own. It's like a kid with crayons but no idea what to draw.

So somebody has to hand it the numbers.

That "hand it the numbers" part is the work we're about to do.

Make sense so far — Chart.js draws, but we have to feed it the numbers?

✻ Brewed for 7s

❯ ok

Good. Next piece — and this is the key one.

Where are the numbers, and where is the drawer?

- The numbers live in your database (on the server — Django's side).
- The drawer (Chart.js) lives in the browser (the visitor's screen).

Two different places.

So the browser has to ask the server: "hey, give me the temperature numbers."

And the server has to answer with just the numbers.

That "ask for numbers, get numbers back" trip is the one new thing we're building today. Everything else you already have.

Still with me?

✻ Crunched for 6s

❯ yeah keep going

Here's the new idea, and it's small.

Every address (URL) you've built so far replies with a whole page — the dashboard, the fetch confirmation, etc.

Now we build a new address whose only reply is numbers. No page. No layout. You'd visit it and just see something like:

3pm 24°, 4pm 23°, 5pm 22°

Plain numbers. That's the whole response.

So today we make one new address that spits out numbers, and then let Chart.js visit that address to grab them.

That's the entire plan:
1. Build the numbers-only address.
2. Point Chart.js at it.

Does the plan — one address that returns just numbers — feel clear?

✻ Sautéed for 8s

❯ yeah that's clear, keep going

One thing that'll make this feel easier — you've already done this before.

Back in Phase 3, you built a REST API: URLs that returned data, not pages. Same exact idea. A numbers-only address is an API endpoint — the thing you already built once.

So we're not learning something brand new. We're reusing a Phase 3 skill for a new purpose: feeding a chart.

The tool for it is the same one from Phase 3 too — Django REST Framework (DRF).

---
So here's our very first concrete step. Small one.

DRF is installed, but Django doesn't "know" it's switched on yet. We flip it on by adding one line to the installed-apps list in settings.py.

Want me to show you which line and where it goes?

✻ Crunched for 16s

※ recap: We're building a chart of the weather data. Right now we're making a numbers-only URL (an API endpoint, like your Phase 3 work) for Chart.js to read. Next step: switch on Django REST Framework by adding one line to INSTALLED_APPS in settings.py. (disable recaps in /config)

❯ yeah show me

  Searched for 1 pattern

Here's your installed-apps list right now (dashboard/settings.py, lines 35–43):

INSTALLED_APPS = [
    "django.contrib.admin",
    "django.contrib.auth",
    "django.contrib.contenttypes",
    "django.contrib.sessions",
    "django.contrib.messages",
    "django.contrib.staticfiles",
    "weather",
]

Add one line — "rest_framework", — right above "weather":

    "django.contrib.staticfiles",
    "rest_framework",
    "weather",
]

Why above weather? Small habit: switch on the tool (DRF) before the app that uses it. Django reads the list top to bottom, so the tool is ready by the time your app needs it.

Go ahead and add that line and save. Tell me when it's in — then we'll check Django still starts cleanly.

✻ Sautéed for 13s

❯ you do it for me

● Update(dashboard\settings.py)
Added 1 line
    "django.contrib.sessions",
    "django.contrib.messages",
    "django.contrib.staticfiles",
    "rest_framework",
    "weather",
]


Done — "rest_framework" is now in the list, right above "weather".

Now let's make sure Django is happy with it. In the terminal where you run the server, run:

python manage.py check

That's Django's "any problems?" self-test. You want to see:

System check identified no issues (0 silenced).

Run it and paste what you get. If it's clean, DRF is officially switched on and we move to building the numbers-address.
